# Sentiment-Analysis-and-Social-Network-Analysis-of-Twitter-Data-on-Abortion
Performed sentiment analysis and topic modeling on Twitter data, comparing sentiments on varying abortion laws in  the USA, Ireland, and the Philippines.

## Introduction

“An abortion is a procedure to end a pregnancy.” [1] Countries and territories across the world enforced laws on abortion procedures. “The Laws range from abortion being freely available on request, to regulation or restrictions of various kinds, to outright prohibition in all circumstances.” [2] “Though it has been banned and otherwise limited by law in many jurisdictions, abortions continue to be common in many areas, even where they are illegal.” [2] The abortion rates are almost similar in countries where abortion procedures are legal and illegal. [3]
This paper concentrates on understanding and analyzing the sentiments of people across the world through Twitter data on abortion. A comparison of the opinions across different geographical areas with different laws is done through sentiment analysis and topic modeling. Social Network Analysis on a Twitter page spreading awareness of abortion rights will give the readers an understanding of the people who support abortion and help women across the US and the world.

## Data

The data for this paper is extracted through the tweets collected from Twitter. To get a generalized opinion about abortion, 1000 tweets are extracted through snscrape using the search word “#abortion”.
I have selected three countries with different abortion laws to understand and compare the sentiments of people there. To extract tweets from only a particular geographical area, snscarpe uses geocode parameter. The parameter needs latitude, longitude, and the search radius. The tweets from the United States are collected with the geocode – “40.267194, -86.134902, 1000000mi” using the search word “#abortion”. The tweets from Ireland are collected with the geocode – “53.43333, -7.95, 500mi” using the search word “#abortion”. The tweets from the Philippines are collected with the geocode – “12.06428,123.8958,2000mi” using the search word “abortion”. For each country, 1000 tweets are collected.
To find out the people who spread awareness about abortion rights and help women, I have considered a Twitter page based in the US – “Women’s March”. The friends and their followers of the page are scraped through the tweepy package and a data frame is created from all these connections. From this data frame, the nodes and edges are extracted as a .csv file. The node.csv file has the user_id and its degree. The egde.csv file has source and target columns.

## Analysis

Textblob Sentiment Analysis, Topic Modeling, Hashtag Analysis, and Social Network Analysis.

## Results

I have implemented sentiment analysis, topic modeling, and hashtag analysis. The results of the sentiment analysis on the abortion data show that almost 40% of tweets perceive abortion positively and 20% perceive abortion negatively. We can observe that there are a lot of tweets that have neutral sentiments. This could be because the individuals are torn, and they could be for or against abortion according to the situation. From the topic modeling, we get 10 topics in the visualization. We can see that topic-1 is majorly against abortion. There are words through which we can understand that this topic document has words that are against abortion. In topic-2, the words are positive and the document topic is inclined toward Pro-Choice. The hashtag analysis has clearly shown us that even though, the Pro-Life hashtags are more in number than the Pro-Choice, other positive hashtags support abortion like the pills that are used for abortion, healthcare, women’s rights, and abortion rights, etc. Through all these methods, we have understood that most people positively perceive abortion, or they have a neutral opinion on the matter. I have extracted tweets from the countries – USA, Ireland, and the Philippines. I have chosen these countries because the three countries have three different kinds of laws. In the US, there is no restriction on abortion. In Ireland, abortion is legal only when the women’s life is in danger. In the Philippines, abortion under any circumstances is illegal. [5] 1000 tweets from each country were collected and sentiment analysis is performed on these tweets and comparisons are made. According to Figure 10, Ireland has a greater number of positive sentiments – 40.5%, and the USA has the least positive sentiments – 35.8%. Although the laws in Ireland and the Philippines are strict, the people living in these countries positively perceive abortion. The public thinks differently from the government in the case of all three countries. According to Figure 11, the US tops the list for negative sentiments, i.e., 38.1% followed by Ireland with 22.4% and the Philippines with 20.8%. The interesting observation is that the difference in the negative sentiment between the US and the other two countries is a lot greater than the difference in the positive sentiments between the US and the other two countries. We can understand from the observations that the laws in the country cannot determine the opinions of the people living in that country. The US has no restrictions on abortion, but the people from this geographical region perceive abortion negatively. In Ireland and the Philippines, although the government has restrictions on abortion, the people of the respective geographical areas perceive abortion positively. The social network analysis is about finding the most influential users in the US-based twitter page – ‘Women’s March’ that supports abortion. These nodes are in ascending order of their eigenvector centralities. The node – ‘onefairwage' has the highest eigenvector centrality – ‘1’. The top 8 influential users in the network based on the number of followers and eigen centrality are - 'onefairwage', 'RebeccaKKatz', 'McMisoprostol', 'Koalani', 'EdMarkey', 'patriottakes', 'nikkideloach’, and 'POTUS'. 




